Migration of a new pinned message inside of the discord-bots channel. (#732)
discord-python/site: pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/python-guides/bot_presence.md

---
title: All available discord statuses for bots

> description: In depth tutorial on how to set a presence to your bot!

Reviewer: I think that these should be flipped.
```suggestion
title: Setting different bot presences
description: In depth tutorial on how to set all available presence to your bot!
```
I am not completely sure about the wording, but I think you get the point.

> ---

Reviewer: There should be a top-level header the same as the title preferably below this line.

> ![image](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/847979818444521582/989739880449994772/unknown.png)

Reviewer: This will need to be moved to the `static/` folder and can you give it a better alt-text? The alt-text is the part where `image` is - it should explain what the image pictures.

Reviewer: I am unresolving this because you still need to download the image and move it to the correct place. We cannot use Discord as a CDN.

Activities

> =======

Reviewer: This mixes RST-style headers with MD-style headers.

```suggestion
## Activities
```

1. Listening to ...

2. Playing ...

3. Streaming ...

4. Watching ...

5. Competing in ...

> 

Reviewer: One empty line will be good enough here

> # Where should I change my bots presence and when?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Where should I change my bot's presence and when?
```

> ---

Reviewer: I think these look a bit out of place, consider removing the empty horizontal lines.

> The presence can be changed only when the bot is connected to discord gateway, so it can successfully send a `PRESENCE` gateway event payload to the gateway in order change the bot's presence. Most libraries allow to set the application's presence within the bot constructor!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The presence can only be changed when your bot is connected to the Discord gateway. This is because it needs to send a `PRESENCE` gateway event but most libraries allow you to set the application's presence within the bot constructor!
```

> # How do I get these statuses and activities for my bot?

Reviewer: Because we will have an overlying header, these headers should all have two `##`:
```suggestion
## How do I get these statuses and activities for my bot?
```

---

Discord.py examples
=======
All discord.py **status** types can be found [here](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html?highlight=status#discord.Status). All discord.py **activity** types can be found [here](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html?highlight=discord%20activity#discord.ActivityType).

Online
-----
```py
import discord
from discord.ext import commands

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>", status=discord.Status.online)

> ```

Reviewer: I think this could be done as a bulleted list with indented codeblock perhaps? Not completely sure whether this will be better, just throwing the idea out there.

```suggestion
- Online
    ```py
    import discord
    from discord.ext import commands

    bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>", status=discord.Status.online)
    ```
```

---

- Online status:

    ```py
    import discord
    from discord.ext import commands

    bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>", status=discord.Status.online)
    ```

-----
```py
import discord
from discord.ext import commands

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>", status=discord.Status.online, activity=discord.Game(name="with wumpus"))
```
Streaming activity
-----
```py
import discord
from discord.ext import commands

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>", status=discord.Status.online, activity=discord.Streaming(name="Wumpus Stream", url="the streams url"))
```

Listening activity
-----
```py
import discord
from discord.ext import commands

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>", status=discord.Status.online, activity=discord.Activity(type=discord.ActivityType.listening, name="The wumpus song"))
```

Watching activity
-----
```py
import discord
from discord.ext import commands

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>", status=discord.Status.online, activity=discord.Activity(type=discord.ActivityType.watching, name="The wumpus movie"))
```

Competing activity
-----
```py
import discord
from discord.ext import commands

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>", status=discord.Status.online, activity=discord.Activity(type=discord.ActivityType.competing, name="The wumpus competition"))

> ```

Reviewer: These lines start to get a little long. Can you split them into multiple lines?

> You can also change your bots presence after logging.

Reviewer: Is this sentence complete? I am not sure I follow.

-----

> You can also use the [change_presence](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html?highlight=bot#discord.ext.commands.Bot.change_presence). method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the [`change_presence()`](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html?highlight=bot#discord.ext.commands.Bot.change_presence) method.
```

> You can also use the [change_presence](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html?highlight=bot#discord.ext.commands.Bot.change_presence). method

Reviewer: Maybe this could clarify how it would be used, I am thinking something like this:

```suggestion
You can also pass the same parameters to the [change_presence](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html?highlight=bot#discord.ext.commands.Bot.change_presence). method
```

> > **_NOTE:_** The method should not be used inside of **on_ready()** as this event can be triggered multiple times after logging in. Resulting in sending multiple of the same `PRESENCE` gateway event payload to the gateway.

Reviewer: Is this still necessary when you have already introduced the parameters to the constructor?

# Changing activity after a certain period of time!

---

> A large number of bots having presences that change by themselves after a certain period. In discord.py this can be done using a task loop. You can read more about tasks [here](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/tasks/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A large number of bots have presences that change by themselves after a certain period. In discord.py this can be done using a task loop. You can read more about tasks [in the documentation](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/tasks/index.html).
```

## An example to using changing activity!

```python
import discord
from discord.ext import commands, tasks
import random

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>")

bot.changeable_activites = ("Call of Duty: Warzone", "Fall Guys", "Fortnite", "Call of Duty: Black Ops IV", "Sea of Thieves", "League of Legends", "Valorant")

> @tasks.loop(minutes=2)

Reviewer: I think this is way too short. I understand that it is for the example, but this can be harmful if someone places in their bot. I would vote for setting this to 30 minutes.

async def change_activity():
    await bot.wait_until_ready()
    new_activity = random.choice(bot.changeable_activites)
    await bot.change_presence(activity=discord.Game(new_activity))

change_activity.start()
```

# FAQ

#### Do discord.py forks also follow the same structure for changing presences?
- Yes, popular discord.py forks such as `disnake`, `nextcord` and `py-cord` also follow the same structure!

#### What is the minimum duration after which I should change the presence?

> - A gap of `75 seconds` is ideal to change the presence of a bot.

Reviewer: The question asks for a minimum duration, but the answer is the "ideal" duration. I would not recommend someone change their presence every 75 seconds though, their bot could be banned for that.

> **_NOTE:_** The method should not be used inside of **on_ready()** as this event can be triggered multiple times after logging in. Resulting in sending multiple of the same `PRESENCE` gateway event payload to the gateway.

## Changing activity after a certain period of time
A large number of bots have presences that change by themselves after a certain period. In discord.py this can be done using a task loop. You can read more about tasks [in the documentation](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/tasks/index.html).

```py
import discord
from discord.ext import commands, tasks
import random

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>")

bot.changeable_activites = (
    "Call of Duty: Warzone",
    "Fall Guys",
    "Fortnite",
    "Call of Duty: Black Ops IV",
    "Sea of Thieves",
    "League of Legends",
    "Valorant",
)

@tasks.loop(minutes=2)
async def change_activity():
    await bot.wait_until_ready()
    new_activity = random.choice(bot.changeable_activites)
    await bot.change_presence(activity=discord.Game(new_activity))

change_activity.start()
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Could we also add one section for changing presence on command? I see people trying this a lot and having a quick snippet would be useful

---
title: Setting different bot presences
description: In depth tutorial on how to set all available presence to your bot!
---
![discord_statuses](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/847979818444521582/989739880449994772/unknown.png)

## Activities
1. Listening to ...

2. Playing ...

3. Streaming ...

4. Watching ...

5. Competing in ...

> # Where should I change my bot's presence and when?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Where should I change my bot's presence and when?
```

The presence can only be changed when your bot is connected to the Discord gateway. This is because it needs to send a `PRESENCE` gateway event but most libraries allow you to set the application's presence within the bot constructor!

## How do I get these statuses and activities for my bot?

> Discord.py examples
> =======

Reviewer: This is still a RST-style header. I would suggest removing it:
```suggestion

```

    bot = commands.Bot(
        command_prefix="<Your prefix>",
        status=discord.Status.online,
        activity=discord.Streaming(name="Wumpus Stream", url="the streams url"),
    )
    ```

- Listening activity
    ```py
    import discord
    from discord.ext import commands

    bot = commands.Bot(
        command_prefix="<Your prefix>",
        status=discord.Status.online,
        activity=discord.Activity(
            type=discord.ActivityType.listening, name="The wumpus  song"
        ),
    )
    ```

- Watching activity
    ```py
    import discord
    from discord.ext import commands

    bot = commands.Bot(
        command_prefix="<Your prefix>",
        status=discord.Status.online,
        activity=discord.Activity(
            type=discord.ActivityType.watching, name="The wumpus movie"
        ),
    )
    ```

- Competing activity
    ```py
    import discord
    from discord.ext import commands

    bot = commands.Bot(
        command_prefix="<Your prefix>",
        status=discord.Status.online,
        activity=discord.Activity(
            type=discord.ActivityType.competing, name="The wumpus competition"
        ),
    )
    ```

> You can also change your bots presence after logging in.
> -----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Changing presence after logging in
```

You can also use the [`change_presence()`](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html?highlight=bot#discord.ext.commands.Bot.change_presence) method.

> **_NOTE:_** The method should not be used inside of **on_ready()** as this event can be triggered multiple times after logging in. Resulting in sending multiple of the same `PRESENCE` gateway event payload to the gateway.

> # Changing activity after a certain period of time!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Changing activity after a certain period of time
```

A large number of bots have presences that change by themselves after a certain period. In discord.py this can be done using a task loop. You can read more about tasks [in the documentation](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/tasks/index.html).

> 
> ## An example to using changing activity!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```py
import discord
from discord.ext import commands, tasks
import random

bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="<Your prefix>")

bot.changeable_activites = (
    "Call of Duty: Warzone",
    "Fall Guys",
    "Fortnite",
    "Call of Duty: Black Ops IV",
    "Sea of Thieves",
    "League of Legends",
    "Valorant",
)

@tasks.loop(minutes=2)
async def change_activity():
    await bot.wait_until_ready()
    new_activity = random.choice(bot.changeable_activites)
    await bot.change_presence(activity=discord.Game(new_activity))

change_activity.start()
```

> # FAQ

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## FAQ
```

#### Do discord.py forks also follow the same structure for changing presences?
- Yes, popular discord.py forks such as `disnake`, `nextcord` and `py-cord` also follow the same structure!

#### What is the minimum duration after which I should change the presence?
- A gap of `75 seconds` is ideal to change the presence of a bot.

#### Can I change my presence after every 5 seconds or so?
- The simple answer is **yes**. The better answer is **no** as spamming gateway event payloads to the gateway can result your bot in getting rate-limited from the discord API.

> Credits
> -----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Credits
```
